>> Nina Zakharenko: Because lists have
an order we can access them by index,
that also means we can sort them.
So let's say that I have some
lottery numbers, in a list.
And you guys can make up your own,
it's your lucky day, so
[LAUGH]
>> Nina Zakharenko: These
are my lottery numbers, right?
There are two ways of sorting in Python.
Let me clear the screen and
kind of move this back to the top,
there's two ways of sorting.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The first way is to,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Take that
original list and then return a copy
of the list that's sorted, but
leave the lists in that
variable completely alone.
And just like with LAN, for length,
sorted as a built-in in Python.
So we can call sorted and pass in
the lottery numbers, and look at that,
they are sorted, right?
But if we look at our underlying variable,
it's still exactly the same,
just like we declared it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Sorted takes
an optional argument, and by the way,
to scroll back and forth in my history,
I'm just using the up arrows and
the down arrows,
it might save you some time.
So remember these optional
default arguments.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So by default,
the list is sorted in increasing order.
But if I pass in this argument
to sorted reverse equals true,
it's gonna sort my list backwards.
And again, looking at the list, the
original list remains unchanged, right?
Notice that calling sorted returns
something, right, it returns a copy.
So, I can save this to a variable,
and all of a sudden in X I have my
new sorted list of saved back copy.
Okay, second way of sorting list,
is to do it in place,
so this operation modifies
the underlying list,
your data is going to change.
And one of the hints that
that is happening is,
if I have my lottery numbers,
I can call .sort on it.
And notice that I'm calling this
method on my own variable, right?
And when I call this method
nothing returns, right.
Or technically,
it's the non type that's returned, but
we're not getting a new copy of
our list because there is no copy.
So if we look in lottery numbers now,
we'll see that our lottery numbers
have been sorted in place,
the data structure has been modified,
right.
So a little bit of trickery,
you would think lottery numbers dot
sort reverse sequel true,
unfortunately, not quite that easy,
so there’s just an extra
method to remember here.
And that would be lottery_numbers.reverse.
Again it returns nothing,
why is that happening?
>> Student: Doing it in place.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Because
it's doing it in place, right.
If I look at my lottery numbers,
they're now sorted backwards
>> Nina Zakharenko: Remember,
if you forget all of this stuff you
can call, because if we look at
the type of lottery numbers,
>> Nina Zakharenko: it's
class list, right?
So, if I wanted to see
the directory listing of
all of the methods available on list,
what would I call?
>> Class: Dir.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Dir on list, right?
Okay, and the ones without the underscores
are generally the ones that we care about.
I used append a little bit earlier, right?
Here's reverse sort,
if I didn't remember what
arguments it took,
what would I type into my REPL?
>> Class: Help.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Help, right.
>> Student2: List.
>> Nina Zakharenko: List.
>> Student2: And then .reverse.
>> Nina Zakharenko: .reverse, right, yeah.
No extra parentheses here or anything,
just the type and the method, and
we'll see that pretty helpful
method comment, right?
It reverses the list in place, cool.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So taking a quick
look at the cheat sheet here,
what's the use for a list?
It's used for
storing similar items in cases where
items need to be added or removed.
You can create the list with the square
brackets, or list for an empty list,
or for a list with items.
You could just put the square brackets and
put some information in there,
right, variables separated by comma.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Cool,
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we looked at checking the name, or
I'm sorry checking the length of the list.
We just do that with one.